# **codefundo-**
**Submission of an idea for codefundo++**
Natural disasters cause a lot of damage in terms of human lives and property. Prediction of these disasters can reduce a lot of damage and economic loss. A warning of even a few minutes can help people to save themselves from injury and harm. The prevention of natural disasters is almost impossible but we can always avoid it by using the predictions made.
This is the age of new technology. Almost everyone today possesses a mobile phone. Therefore, our proposal is to create an application which is mandatory on everyone’s phones and which will have the following features:
•	This app will use the phone’s GPS, location and internet. We will already have predictions made by scientists about the possible disasters and their intended target locations. These predictions are made by using years and years of data and also monitoring changes in atmospheric and geographical conditions. The predictions made are fairly accurate and the problem is that the information is not properly conveyed to the people potentially at risk. Every disaster will have a target zone and different levels of intensity for different locations. The app will be using this data to determine whether the user is in a potential danger zone or not and also the intensity of the disaster. 
•	If the user is in a danger zone of say intensity level 4 (there can be different intensity levels for different disasters; 1 being the most unsafe and then gradually decreasing to safety at 10), then the user will receive a notification containing detailed information about the disaster like safety measures that need to be taken, precautions, to do and not to do lists etc.
•	This app will also use emergency contacts and warn them of the danger the user is in. The live location of the user will also be sent to the emergency contact. This will ensure that relatives and loved ones of the user remain in contact and be assured of the user’s safety. 
•	The app will also contain information about location of safe places for different disasters based on the user’s location. For example, the app will contain the nearest empty ground’s location in case an earthquake occurs and the location of high ground in case of floods. During the disaster, the app will automatically navigate and show the user directions to the nearest safe place. In case network doesn’t work properly, the app will use the last location of the user and automatically navigate the rest of the path using the already saved locations. Also, it will take a screenshot of the navigation in case the network fails, which is very probable in case of a disaster.
•	This app will also initiate some measures to ensure that the user remains connected with others like switching on options like low data usage, battery save mode etc. 
•	This app will also monitor your contacts and their locations and notify you if they are in any kind of danger.

